                                                                              The Times of India





Since he swept to power four years ago, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has usually hugged the headlines. A strategically tactile leader, Mr Modi has freely embraced world leaders, while preferring to keep a distance at home.

Last week, Rahul Gandhi, the leader of the main opposition Congress, turned the tables on Mr Modi. After making a biting speech targeting Mr Modi's performance during a no-confidence motion - which the opposition lost - the 48-year-old dynast surprised his political foe in the parliament with a giant unexpected hug.

Mr Modi and his party revel in mocking Mr Gandhi and his enfeebled party, which has been reduced to a rump in the parliament. Mr Gandhi has also been the butt of coarse jokes by trolls supported by Mr Modi's BJP in social media. "You have hate in your hearts for me...and hurl choice abuses at me, but in my heart, I have no hate for you," Mr Gandhi, said before walking over to a sitting Mr Modi, and surprising him with a clearly unwanted embrace.

The hug made national headlines and the media went into a tizzy, generating an ungainly hashtag #hugoplacy on social media. Some called the it a "historic" hug, and proved that Mr Gandhi was a more astute politician than what his rivals gave him credit for.

Others said the once-reluctant leader was finally learning the idiom of clever telegenic politics which would help him outsmart the formidable Mr Modi, known for his killer instinct and take-no-prisoners approach. "In the picture, Mr Modi seems burdened by his role, while Mr Gandhi looks ready for a certain inventiveness. It is as if he is signalling a change in style," sociologist Shiv Visvanathan told me.

A leading commentator called the hug "dramatic, unlikely and unexpected", and the result of a "pure, deliberate, coldly-crafted strategy". Barkha Dutt wrote that Mr Gandhi wants people to believe that the hug "is the politics of love vs the politics of hate - that a new-generation metrosexual gentleness can combat hard-line machismo." One newspaper breathlessly reported that the carefully-executed "hug plan" took place in February.

A dairy firm put out a cartoon, wondering whether it was an act of embracing or an attempt at embarrassing Mr Modi.

I believe the cartoon got it right. Many believe that the embrace was a brave gesture by Mr Gandhi in the "spirit of friendship" in "a toxic environment of masculinist politics" under Mr Modi. But the seemingly bipartisan hug appeared to be more of an ambush than an embrace.

Mr Gandhi may well have been inspired by US President Lyndon Johnson who famously said his philosophy was to "hug your friends tight, but your enemies tighter - hug 'em so tight that they can't wiggle." 

t was joining Taekwondo that helped this 16-year-old say no to the predator in her house, open up about her trauma and start the road to recovery.

I am 16 years old and struggling to recover from the scars of child sexual abuse that have left my inner self battered. The impact has been so severe that today I suffer from severe anxiety, depression, fainting spells, asthma, bronchitis, cyst in ovaries and tinnitus in ears.

The TOI series survivors of sexual violence has given me the courage to write to you. The predator in my case is my choto maama (mother’s younger brother). Now 46, my uncle suffers from depression from his teenage. He has refused to undergo treatment all his life. My grandparents know what he did to me but they have chosen silence over action.

I was separated from my biological father when I was two years old and my mother remarried. Initially, I lived with my maternal grandparents in Delhi till my mother moved to Kolkata in 2008. I joined school in Kolkata but since my grandparents started missing me, my mother took me back to Delhi during the summer vacations. I was 6 years old at that time. My mother returned to Kolkata for work and that is when my ordeal started.

My uncle started showing me porn movies. I can still recall visuals from a movie of a school girl being molested. I trusted my uncle like a father figure but he abused me. He tried putting his penis in my mouth and tried penetration. When he was unable to penetrate my vagina he inserted ballpoint pens. It used to burn for next two days. I would scream in pain but he would close my mouth and keep me in his room all night. He would tell me it's a secret no one should know about. I was totally confused and scared. He would take me to museums, buy me gifts and asked me not to tell anyone what he did to me. At one point he even told me that no one would believe me if I told my grandparents as they love him a lot. He also threatened me.

predators-logo-edited

Again in 2009 we went to Delhi for the summer vacation. My mother dropped me and returned to Kolkata. My uncle continued to abuse me. When I returned to Kolkata after the summer vacation I started having strange abdominal pain and headaches. My mother took me to a doctor who said that it could be physiological or Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.

My mother felt that since she had remarried, I was not able to adjust in a new family. She decided to admit me into a school in Delhi so that I could live with my maternal grandparents. She thought I was suffering from stress as I was missing Delhi and my grandparents. I came to Delhi in 2011. My uncle started coming to my room almost every night and the abuse started again. I started having my periods when I was nine. I would try to save myself by saying that I was having my monthly cycle. Once he caught me lying as he checked and punished me severely. He would torture me and I would keep requesting, ”leave me, leave me please, it’s hurting”. He held my legs so tightly that I had red marks on my thighs. I would pray that someone would come and knock on the door and end my pain. I wanted to die to save myself from the torture. Till date I am fighting my habit of self-harm. I cut myself in places where it stays covered and no one can see it.

I was 11 years old when one day when no one else was at home my uncle raped me. He raped me another day when my grandparents went for a medical check up. He kept repeating that this should be our secret. I was broken and then one day I just refused to go to school. I called my mother and just kept crying and saying "mommy you come here.” I now realise he could have got me pregnant and could have easily killed me.

My mother shifted to Delhi soon after and took up a job here. I continued having school phobia and anxiety. When my mother would go to work the predator – my uncle would come to my room lock the door and molest me in the afternoon.

My grandparents who were always in the house would never try to check why he had locked the room. I joined Taekwondo in year 2013 and finally learnt to say no to the predator in my house.

I returned to Kolkata with my mother. It was on July 31 last year that I gathered the courage and broke my silence. I spoke up about all that had happened to me between 6-12 years of age. When my mother confronted her parents about the paedophile, my grandmother’s reaction was give one slap to your younger brother and never see his face. She went on to tell my mother that she should not tell anyone about this as it will spoil my reputation.

My mother reached out to her elder brother and his family but they refused to help and said that spreading my harrowing experience of abuse will also harm their daughter's future. They initially avoided meeting us and now have no contact with us. My grandparents too have broken all links with us. I overheard my mother talking to a relative saying that my grandmother is spreading lies and calling all the relatives to not keep any contact with us to protect her criminal son.

As things stand today I am still unable to go to a regular school. I am enrolled under the open school system and undergo regular treatment with a psychologist, psychiatrist, pulmonologist, gynaecologist and ENT specialist.

I am a survivor. I will fight it out. I aspire to win this battle and one day become a 