                                                                          Wikipedia  


                                                         83% accuracy when compared to others being free



                From today's featured article
Wilder-Neligan as a lieutenant colonel

Maurice Wilder-Neligan (1882–1923) was a British-born Australian soldier who commanded the 10th Battalion during the latter stages of World War I. Emigrating to Australia before the war, he enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force. He was decorated for bravery and commissioned during the Gallipoli Campaign of 1915. He received a severe head wound while leading a successful raid on German trenches near Fleurbaix, France, in early 1916, earning a second decoration for gallantry and the praise of war historians. In July 1917 he was promoted to lieutenant colonel and received command of the battalion. He led it during the Battle of the Menin Road Ridge in September and was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in June 1918. He was again decorated for courage for the capture of the commune of Merris on 29 July. After the war, he worked as a district officer in the Territory of New Guinea, where he died at the age of 40, probably of complications from his war wounds. (Full article...)
Recently featured:

    Nine Stones, Winterbourne Abbas Ride the Lightning Cooperative pulling paradigm

    Archive By email More featured articles

Did you know...
Enoch zu Guttenberg
Enoch zu Guttenberg

    ... that Enoch zu Guttenberg (pictured) conducted Verdi's Requiem in a concert in Rome for Pope Benedict XVI?
    ... that Marvel Comics published a solo comic book about the teenager Jean Grey from the time-displaced X-Men?
    ... that Jean-François Bony designed fabrics for the rulers of France before, during, and after the French Revolution?
    ... that Stanwood station was once served by the "Dinky", claimed by local residents to be the world's shortest steam railway?
    ... that after Shane Filan's demo for "Beautiful in White" was leaked in 2010, it became a popular wedding song in Asia?
    ... that the fatal shooting of her son inspired Lucy McBath to advocate for gun control and ultimately run for the United States Congress?
    ... that the copepod Metridia longa cannibalizes up to 85% of its eggs?
    ... that footballer Eddie Jenkins turned down a move to Tottenham Hotspur because he thought that "there were better prospects in the milk business"?

    Archive Start a new article Nominate an article

		
In the news
Site of sub-surface lake on Mars
Site of sub-surface lake on Mars

    Scientists announce the discovery of a 20-kilometre-wide (12 mi) sub-surface lake of water (location pictured) on Mars.
    A heat wave in Japan leaves 80 people dead, with more than 22,000 others requiring hospitalization.
    At least 80 people are killed and more than 100 others injured in wildfires in the Greek tourist resort of Mati.
    In the Syrian Civil War, an army offensive captures all opposition-held regions in the south of the country.
    A hydroelectric dam under construction in south-eastern Laos collapses, resulting in extensive damage and leaving more than 6,000 people displaced.

Recent deaths:

    György Szepesi Sergio Marchionne Mary Ellis Corinne Gallant

    Other recent events Nominate an article

On this day

July 29
Augustin Fresnel
Augustin Fresnel

    1148 – The Siege of Damascus ended in a decisive victory for the Muslims, leading to the disintegration of the Second Crusade.
    1818 – French physicist Augustin Fresnel (pictured) submitted his "Memoir on the Diffraction of Light", providing strong support for the wave theory of light.
    1914 – The first shots of World War I were fired by the Austro-Hungarian river monitor SMS Bodrog upon Serbian defences near Belgrade.
    1958 – U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the National Aeronautics and Space Act into law, establishing a new federal non-military space agency known as NASA.
    1981 – An estimated worldwide television audience of 750 million people watched the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer at St Paul's Cathedral in London.

Ivan Aivazovsky (b. 1817) · Isabel, Princess Imperial of Brazil (b. 1846) · Edward Gierek (d. 2001)
More anniversaries:

    July 28 July 29 July 30





                      